##### [Deep Factorization Machines for Knowledge Tracing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.00356)
We used deep factorization machines, a wide and deep learning model of pairwise relationships between users, items, skills, and other entities considered. Our solution (AUC 0.815) hopefully managed to beat the logistic regression baseline (AUC 0.774) but not the top performing model (AUC 0.861) and reveals interesting strategies to build upon item response theory models.

##### [Grotoco@SLAM: Second Language Acquisition Modeling with SImple Features, Learners and Task-wise Models](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-0523/)
We present our submission to the 2018 Duolingo Shared Task on Second Language Acquisition Modeling (SLAM). We focus on evaluating a range of features for the task, including user-derived measures, while examining how far we can get with a simple linear classifier. Our analysis reveals that errors differ per exercise format, which motivates our final and best-performing system: a task-wise (per exercise-format) model.

##### [Modeling Second Language Learnign from a Psychological Perspective](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-0526/)
Psychological research on learning and memory has tended to emphasize small-scale laboratory studies. However, large datasets of people using educational software provide opportunities to explore these issues from a new perspective. In this paper we describe our approach to the Duolingo Second Language Acquisition Modeling (SLAM) competition which was run in early 2018. We used a well-known class of algorithms (gradient boosted decision trees), with features partially informed by theories from the psychological literature. After detailing our modeling approach and a number of supplementary simulations, we reflect on the degree to which psychological theory aided the model, and the potential for cognitive science and predictive modeling competitions to gain from each other.

##### [Multi-task Learning for Low-resource Second Language Acquistion Modeling](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.09283)
Second language acquisition (SLA) modeling is to predict whether second language learners could correctly answer the questions according to what they have learned. It is a fundamental building block of the personalized learning system and has attracted more and more attention recently. However, as far as we know, almost all existing methods cannot work well in low-resource scenarios because lacking of training data. Fortunately, there are some latent common patterns among different language-learning tasks, which gives us an opportunity to solve the low-resource SLA modeling problem. Inspired by this idea, in this paper, we propose a novel SLA modeling method, which learns the latent common patterns among different language-learning datasets by multi-task learning and are further applied to improving the prediction performance in low-resource scenarios. Extensive experiments show that the proposed method performs much better than the state-of-the-art baselines in the low-resource scenario. Meanwhile, it also obtains improvement slightly in the non-low-resource scenario.

##### [Context Based Approach for Second Language Acquisition](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-0524/)
SLAM 2018 focuses on predicting a student’s mistake while using the Duolingo application. In this paper, we describe the system we developed for this shared task. Our system uses a logistic regression model to predict the likelihood of a student making a mistake while answering an exercise on Duolingo in all three language tracks - English/Spanish (en/es), Spanish/English (es/en) and French/English (fr/en). We conduct an ablation study with several features during the development of this system and discover that context based features plays a major role in language acquisition modeling. Our model beats Duolingo’s baseline scores in all three language tracks (AUROC scores for en/es = 0.821, es/en = 0.790 and fr/en = 0.812). Our work makes a case for providing favourable textual context for students while learning second language.

##### [Feature Engineering for Second Language Acquisition Modeling](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-0543/)
Knowledge tracing serves as a keystone in delivering personalized education. However, few works attempted to model students’ knowledge state in the setting of Second Language Acquisition. The Duolingo Shared Task on Second Language Acquisition Modeling provides students’ trace data that we extensively analyze and engineer features from for the task of predicting whether a student will correctly solve a vocabulary exercise. Our analyses of students’ learning traces reveal that factors like exercise format and engagement impact their exercise performance to a large extent. Overall, we extracted 23 different features as input to a Gradient Tree Boosting framework, which resulted in an AUC score of between 0.80 and 0.82 on the official test set.

##### [Text mining in education](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/widm.1332)
The explosive growth of online education environments is generating a massive volume of data, specially in text format from forums, chats, social networks, assessments, essays, among others. It produces exciting challenges on how to mine text data in order to find useful knowledge for educational stakeholders. Despite the increasing number of educational applications of text mining published recently, we have not found any paper surveying them. In this line, this work presents a systematic overview of the current status of the Educational Text Mining field. Our final goal is to answer three main research questions: Which are the text mining techniques most used in educational environments? Which are the most used educational resources? And which are the main applications or educational goals? Finally, we outline the conclusions and the more interesting future trends.

##### [TMU System for SLAM-2018](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-0544/)
We introduce the TMU systems for the second language acquisition modeling shared task 2018 (Settles et al., 2018). To model learner error patterns, it is necessary to maintain a considerable amount of information regarding the type of exercises learners have been learning in the past and the manner in which they answered them. Tracking an enormous learner’s learning history and their correct and mistaken answers is essential to predict the learner’s future mistakes. Therefore, we propose a model which tracks the learner’s learning history efficiently. Our systems ranked fourth in the English and Spanish subtasks, and fifth in the French subtask.

